Blog: PostHog vs Hotjar (#5931)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/posthog-vs-hotjar.md

            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Send messages to users in your app.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Surveys</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td>Capture user feedback with surveys. </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Customer interview scheduling</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>In-app widget for requesting customer interviews.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>User interview recordings and transcriptions</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>

>             <td></td>

Reviewer: Missing a note or description here (and in all subsequent mentions of it)

Author: Hmm Im not sure this needs a note

</table>
</div>

- **Session replays:** [Session replays](/session-replay) in PostHog recreate exactly what real users see and how they use your product. They also enable you to debug problems using built-in [console logs](/docs/session-replay/configure#console-logs-recording-beta), [performance monitoring](/tutorials/performance-metrics) and the [DOM explorer](/blog/posthog-changelog#experimental-dom-explorer-mode).

- **Feature flags:** PostHog includes [multivariate feature flags](/feature-flags) that support JSON payloads. Teams can use feature flags to offer different features or UI choices to users, to trigger in-app messages, and more.

- **A/B testing:** In PostHog, you can use the [experimentation suite](/ab-testing) to create multivariate tests within your product, such as showing some users a different page layout to others. Over time, you can build an understanding of which page performs better, correlate results with other events, and deploy a final version.

### Session replays

Session replays are an essential tool for understanding how people use your product, especially for [early-stage companies](/blog/early-stage-analytics) searching for product-market fit. 

> > Learn [how Contra used session replays](/customers/contra) to increase registrations by 30%. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Ready to learn more?** Find out [how Contra used PostHog's session replays](/customers/contra) to increase registrations by 30%. 
```
Was expecting us to work it into the copy, but I like this CTA. Will defer to @andyvan-ph on if it's too heavy-handed though, in which case we can just lose the `>`

---
date: 2023-05-08
title: "In-depth: PostHog vs Hotjar"
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-vs-hotjar/posthog-vs-hotjar.jpg
featuredImageType: full
author:
    - lior-neu-ner
category: General
tags:
    - Comparisons
---

Want to understand the difference between Hotjar and PostHog? Here's the short answer:

1. Hotjar enables you to see how customers are using your product with session replays and heatmaps. It also provides widgets for collecting feedback and tools for scheduling customer interviews. Hotjar is built for marketers and user experience (UX) researchers.

2. PostHog is an all-in-one product improvement platform for product analytics, session recording, feature flags, in-app prompts, and more. PostHog is built for engineers and product teams.

Now it's time for the long answer...

In this guide, we'll cover:

- Hotjar and PostHog [feature comparison](#feature-comparison)
- [Session replay](#session-replay) capabilities
- [Privacy](#privacy-compliance) and [security](#admin--security)

> - [Frequently asked questions](#frequently-asked-questions)

Author: I wanted to check these work correctly, but kept getting a 404 when trying to visit this page locally. Anyone know how what may be causing this?

Reviewer: Actually, that's not what's causing the 404 - unsure about that - but these links still need to be corrected.

Reviewer 2: You might need to run `gatsby clean` and `yarn` again to get rid of cached stuff.

For creating the heading links, I copy them from the links after running locally.

Reviewer: I figured out the 404 - it's a typo in a markdown table way below. <atr/> needed to be replaced with <tr/>, IIRC

## How is PostHog different?

### 1. PostHog is an all-in one platform

Hotjar focuses mainly on session replays, heatmaps, and user research. That means you need to adopt additional tools for things like product analytics, feature management, and A/B testing. PostHog integrates all these features into one platform (in addition to session replays and heatmaps). PostHog is like mission control for your product.

### 2. PostHog is built for engineers

 As such, PostHog includes many powerful features that aren’t available in tools like Hotjar, which is built for more general audiences.

We built PostHog to support technically-savvy product managers and engineers — especially [engineers with a product focus in their role](/blog/what-is-a-product-engineer). Although anyone can use PostHog ([just ask our marketing team](blog/posthog-marketing), our goal is to help engineers be better at product by giving them the insights and tools they need to ship impactful features at speed.

### 3. PostHog is open source

> Because we build for engineers first, we're also open source. You can check out [PostHog’s source code](https://github.com/PostHog), [build integrations](/docs/apps/build) or [other services](/blog/how-we-built-an-app-server) on top of the product, and even [give feedback or interact with the team via GitHub](https://github.com/PostHog). Transparency, including transparent pricing, is one of our core values.

Reviewer: Best to switch the feedback link out to https://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal as that's the preferred feedback form now

Author: This link is only available for users that have already created a PostHog app

            <td>Roll out features safely; toggle features for cohorts or individuals</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>A/B testing</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Test changes and analyze impact</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Feedback widgets</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Suggestion box on your site where users can express frustration or delight.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>In-app prompts and messages</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Send messages to users in your app</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>

>             <td><strong>Surveys</strong></td>

Reviewer: We could technically do this - would just be a case of building one with an FF. The NPS app I'm working on could count towards this, for example.

            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td>Capture user feedback with surveys. </td>
        </tr>

>         <atr>

Reviewer: Typo here is what's causing the 404. 

Should be <tr>

            <td><strong>Customer interviews</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td>Recruit and schedule customer interviews. </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>

>             <td><strong>Apps/Integrations</strong></td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <td><strong>Apps</strong></td>
```
Would prefer to avoid confusion and keep naming consistent

            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Push and pull data to other destinations</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
</div>

> - **Session replays:** [Session replays](/session-replay) in PostHog recreate exactly what real users see and how they use your product. They also enable you to debug problems using built-in console logs and network performance.

Reviewer: We could mention here that we include DOM explorer, performance monitoring, etc.

> - **Feature flags:** PostHog includes [multivariate feature flags](/feature-flags) that support JSON payloads, In-app prompts. Teams can use feature flags to offer different features or UI choices to users, to trigger in-app messages, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Feature flags:** PostHog includes [multivariate feature flags](/feature-flags) that support JSON payloads. Teams can use feature flags to offer different features or UI choices to users, to trigger in-app messages, and more.
```

- **A/B testing:** In PostHog, you can use the [experimentation suite](/ab-testing) to create multivariate tests within your product, such as showing some users a different page layout to others. Over time, you can build an understanding of which page performs better, correlate results with other events, and deploy a final version.

> 

Reviewer: We could use the Tutorial Tracks component here to add some visual elements and further links to the page, as in the Pendo article: 
```
<h4 className="mb-0">Discover what's possible with <span className="text-blue">product analytics</span></h4>
<TutorialsSlider slugs={[
  "/tutorials/churn-rate",
  "/tutorials/funnels",
  "/tutorials/api-get-insights-persons",
  "/tutorials/feature-retention",
  "/tutorials/next-steps-after-installing"
]} />
```

Now it's time for the long answer...

In this guide, we'll cover:

- Hotjar and PostHog [feature comparison](#core-features)
- [Session replay](#session-replay) capabilities
- [Heatmap](#Heatmaps) capabilities
- [In-app messages and user research](#in-app-messages-and-user-research)
- [Apps and integrations](#apps-and-integrations)
- [Privacy, compliance, and security](#privacy-compliance-and-security)
- [Frequently asked questions](#frequently-asked-questions)

## How is PostHog different?

### 1. PostHog is an all-in one platform

Hotjar focuses mainly on session replays, heatmaps, and user research. That means you need to adopt additional tools for things like [product analytics](/product-analytics), [feature management](/feature-flags), and [A/B testing](/ab-testing). PostHog integrates all these features into one platform (in addition to [session replays and heatmaps](/session-replay)). PostHog is like mission control for your product, rather than just a single tool. 

### 2. PostHog is built for engineers

> As such, PostHog includes many powerful features that aren’t available in tools like Hotjar, which is built for more general audiences. These features include tools like feature flags with JSON payloads, which enable you to trigger in-app messages or other notifications. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As such, PostHog integrates numerous powerful features that aren’t available in tools like Hotjar, such as feature flags with JSON payloads, which enable you to trigger in-app messages, or other notifications. 
```

> We built PostHog to support technically-savvy product managers and engineers — especially [engineers with a product focus in their role](/blog/what-is-a-product-engineer). Although anyone can use PostHog ([just ask our marketing team](blog/posthog-marketing)), our goal is to help engineers be better at product by giving them the insights and tools they need to ship impactful features at speed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We built PostHog to support technically-savvy product managers and engineers – especially [engineers with a product focus in their role](/blog/what-is-a-product-engineer). Anyone can use PostHog ([just ask our marketing team](blog/posthog-marketing)), but our primary goal is to give engineers the tools they need to ship impactful features at speed.
```

> We built PostHog to support technically-savvy product managers and engineers — especially [engineers with a product focus in their role](/blog/what-is-a-product-engineer). Although anyone can use PostHog ([just ask our marketing team](blog/posthog-marketing)), our goal is to help engineers be better at product by giving them the insights and tools they need to ship impactful features at speed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We built PostHog to support technically-savvy product managers and engineers – especially [engineers with a product focus in their role](/blog/what-is-a-product-engineer). Anyone can use PostHog ([just ask our marketing team](blog/posthog-marketing)), but our primary goal is to give engineers the tools they need to ship impactful features at speed.
```

- **A/B testing:** In PostHog, you can use the [experimentation suite](/ab-testing) to create multivariate tests within your product, such as showing some users a different page layout to others. Over time, you can build an understanding of which page performs better, correlate results with other events, and deploy a final version.
- 
### Session replays

Session replays are an essential tool for understanding how people use your product, especially for [early-stage companies](/blog/early-stage-analytics) searching for product-market fit. Both Hotjar and PostHog offer session replays:

<div className="overflow-x-auto -mx-5 px-5">
<table className="w-full mt-4" style="min-width: 600px;">
    <thead>
        <tr>
			<td className="w-3/12"></td>
            <td><strong>Hotjar</strong></td>
            <td><strong>PostHog</strong></td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Free recording allowance</strong></td>

>             <td className="text-center">~1,000 per month (max 35 per day) on Basic plan</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            <td className="text-center">~1k per month (max 35 per day) on Basic plan</td>
```

>             <td className="text-center">15,000 per month</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            <td className="text-center">15k per month</td>
```

>             <td>Free recordings before being charged</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            <td></td>
```

Reviewer 3: Don't think this needs explaining

        </tr>
        <tr>

>             <td><strong>Price for first 50,000 sessions</strong></td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            <td><strong>Price for first 50k sessions</strong></td>
```

>             <td className="text-center">~$200 per month (max 1,500 sessions per day)</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            <td className="text-center">~$200 per month (max 1.5k sessions per day)</td>
```

>             <td className="text-center">~$200 per month (max 1,500 sessions per day)</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            <td className="text-center">~$200 per month (max 1.5k sessions per day)</td>
```

            <td className="text-center">$175 per month</td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>

>             <td><strong>Price for first 50,000 sessions</strong></td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            <td><strong>Price for first 50k sessions</strong></td>
```

>             <td><strong>Price for first 50,000 sessions</strong></td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            <td><strong>Price for first 50k sessions</strong></td>
```

>             <td className="text-center">~$200 per month (max 1,500 sessions per day)</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            <td className="text-center">~$200 per month (max 1.5k sessions per day)</td>
```

            <td className="text-center">$175 per month</td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Browser app recording</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Watch real users use your product; diagnose bugs.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Connected to product analytics</strong></td>

>             <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span> Requires additional integration</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            <td className="text-center">Requires additional integration</td>
```

            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>View replays for specific users and events.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Console logs</strong></td>

>             <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span> Only in Scale plan</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            <td className="text-center">Only in Scale plan</td>
```

            <td>Show how far down the page your users scroll.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Rage clicks</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Show where users repeatedly click in a short period of time.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Combine rage click data with product analytics</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>View related events and funnel data for users who rage click.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Heatmap data filters</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td>Filter heatmaps by date, country etc.</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
</div>

### In-app messages and user research

> Hotjar enables you to hear from users with feedback widgets, surveys, and an integrated user research tool. PostHog also supports [feedback widgets](/apps/feedback-widget) and [user research scheduling](/apps/user-interviews), although not surveys. However, PostHog offers additional ways to communicate with your users, such as a [notification bar](/apps/notification-bar) and interactive [pop-ups](tutorials/react-popups) through the use of [feature flag payloads](/docs/feature-flags/payloads) and [site apps](/tutorials/build-site-app). Also, since PostHog provides product analytics, you can easily define your target users who should see your widgets.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Hotjar includes feedback widgets, surveys, and an integrated user research tool for gathering feedback from users. PostHog also supports [feedback widgets](/apps/feedback-widget) and [user research scheduling](/apps/user-interviews), although not surveys.

PostHog also offers additional ways to communicate with your users, such as a [notification bar](/apps/notification-bar) and interactive [pop-ups](tutorials/react-popups) through the use of [feature flag payloads](/docs/feature-flags/payloads), and [site apps](/tutorials/build-site-app). Also, since PostHog provides product analytics, you can easily define your target users who should see your widgets.
```

<div className="overflow-x-auto -mx-5 px-5">
<table className="w-full mt-4" style="min-width: 600px;">
    <thead>
        <tr>
			<td className="w-3/12"></td>
            <td><strong>Hotjar</strong></td>
            <td><strong>PostHog</strong></td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Feedback widget</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Suggestion box on your site where users can express frustration or delight.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Customer interview scheduling</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>In-app widget for requesting customer interviews.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Custom user targeting</strong></td>

>             <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span> Requires additional integration</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            <td className="text-center">Requires additional integration</td>
```

            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Display a customised banner on your site.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>In-app popups</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Highlight features in your app.</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
</div>

### Apps and integrations
Both Hotjar and PostHog have a wide selection of apps and integration. Both also include integrations with tools such as Zapier, which enable you to move data to even more platforms.

One unique advantage of PostHog is that, because it is open source, it’s easy to [create your own apps and integrations](/tutorials/build-your-own-posthog-app). This is useful if you’re, for example, using niche software in your stack that hasn’t been widely adopted, or if you require a direct integration between PostHog and your product. 

> > The number of available apps is constantly increasing for both PostHog and Hotjar, so rather than list all available apps, we’ve shortened this section to only list the most popular integrations in particular categories. Want the full list? Check [the PostHog app library](/apps)!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Feels repetitive given we have a boxout after the table as well.

            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Extract and load data to external platforms</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Customer.io</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Sync data between platforms</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Sentry</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Ingest Sentry errors for analysis</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Segment</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Ingest events from Segment</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
</div>

> > **Want more?** For a full list of PostHog’s available integrations, please [check the app directory](/apps).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> **Want more?** Visit the [PostHog the app directory](/apps) for a full list of supported integrations.
```

### Who is Hotjar useful for?

Hotjar is designed primarily for marketers and UX specialists. Its key features are the ability to record session replays and heatmaps. It also provides widgets for collecting feedback and tools for scheduling customer interviews. These provide insights into how customers are using your product. 

### Who is PostHog useful for?

PostHog is built primarily with engineers, product managers and other technical users in mind. It also offers the ability to record session replays, heatmaps, and create feedback widgets, but also offers a number of other tools that are useful for these types of teams, such as product analytics and feature flags. 

This difference is ultimately reflected in many of the features both platforms offer, and how they are designed. PostHog's focus on breadth and supporting engineers in creating better products, for example, is reflected in its core features. 

### How much does Hotjar cost?

Hotjar has tier-based pricing: Basic, Plus, Business and Scale. All plans offer session recordings, although the costs and limits differ. Additional features such as API access and SAML single sign-on are only available on some plans.

> The free can only record up to 35 daily session recordings. After this, the Plus tier offers 100 daily session recordings for $32 per month and the Business tier offers 500 daily sessions for $80 per month (with the option to pay for more sessions). Finally, the Scale tier offers 500 daily sessions for $171 per month, but offers access to additional features such as Console tracking and the Hotjar API.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Hotjar's free plan only records up to 35 daily session recordings. After this, the Plus tier offers 100 daily session recordings for $32 per month and the Business tier offers 500 daily sessions for $80 per month (with the option to pay for more sessions). Finally, the Scale tier offers 500 daily sessions for $171 per month, but offers access to additional features such as Console tracking and the Hotjar API.
```

---
date: 2023-05-08
title: "In-depth: PostHog vs Hotjar"
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-vs-hotjar/posthog-vs-hotjar.jpg
featuredImageType: full
author:
    - lior-neu-ner
category: General
tags:
    - Comparisons
---

Want to understand the difference between Hotjar and PostHog? Here's the short answer:

1. **Hotjar** is a user research tool that offers session replays, heatmaps, and tools for collecting feedback and scheduling customer interviews. It's built for marketers and user experience (UX) researchers.

2. **PostHog** is an all-in-one platform for building successful products. It includes product analytics, session replays, feature flags, in-app prompts, and more. It's built for engineers and product teams.

Now it's time for the long answer...

In this guide, we'll cover:

- Hotjar and PostHog [feature comparison](#core-features)

> - [Session replay](#session-replay) capabilities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Session replay](#session-replays) capabilities
```
broken link, fixed

- [Heatmap](#Heatmaps) capabilities
- [In-app messages and user research](#in-app-messages-and-user-research)
- [Apps and integrations](#apps-and-integrations)
- [Privacy, compliance, and security](#privacy-compliance-and-security)
- [Frequently asked questions](#frequently-asked-questions)

## How is PostHog different?

### 1. PostHog is an all-in one platform

Hotjar focuses mainly on session replays, heatmaps, and user research. That means you need to adopt additional tools for things like [product analytics](/product-analytics), [feature management](/feature-flags), and [A/B testing](/ab-testing). PostHog integrates all these features into one platform (in addition to [session replays and heatmaps](/session-replay)).

### 2. PostHog is built for engineers

> As such, PostHog integrates numerous powerful features that aren’t available in tools like Hotjar, such as feature flags with JSON payloads, which enable you to trigger in-app messages, or other notifications. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PostHog integrates powerful features that aren’t available in Hotjar and which are designed for technical users, such as feature flags with JSON payloads, which enable you to trigger in-app messages, or other notifications. 
```

### 3. PostHog is open source

Because we build for engineers first, we're also open source. You can check out [PostHog’s source code](https://github.com/PostHog), [build integrations](/docs/apps/build) or [other services](/blog/how-we-built-an-app-server) on top of the product, and even [give feedback or interact with the team via GitHub](https://github.com/PostHog). Transparency, including transparent pricing, is one of our core values.

<ArrayCTA />

## Core features
<div className="overflow-x-auto -mx-5 px-5">
<table className="w-full mt-4" style="min-width: 600px;">
    <thead>
        <tr>
          <td className="w-3/12"></td>
            <td><strong>Hotjar</strong></td>
            <td><strong>PostHog</strong></td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Session replays</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>

>             <td>Watch real users use your product; diagnose bugs</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <td>Watch real users use your product</td>
```
Not it's only use

            <td>Suggestion box on your site where users can express frustration or delight.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>In-app prompts and messages</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Send messages to users in your app</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Surveys</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td>Capture user feedback with surveys. </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Customer interview scheduling</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>In-app widget for requesting customer interviews.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>

>             <td><strong>User research tooling</strong></td>

Reviewer: I don't know what we're referring to here, or how it's different to the interview scheduling, etc.

- 
### Session replays

Session replays are an essential tool for understanding how people use your product, especially for [early-stage companies](/blog/early-stage-analytics) searching for product-market fit. Both Hotjar and PostHog offer session replays:

<div className="overflow-x-auto -mx-5 px-5">
<table className="w-full mt-4" style="min-width: 600px;">
    <thead>
        <tr>
			<td className="w-3/12"></td>
            <td><strong>Hotjar</strong></td>
            <td><strong>PostHog</strong></td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Free recording allowance</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center">~1k per month (max 35 per day) on Basic plan</td>
            <td className="text-center">15k per month</td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Price for first 50k sessions</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center">~$200 per month (max 1.5k sessions per day)</td>
            <td className="text-center">$175 per month</td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>

>             <td><strong>Price for first 50k sessions</strong></td>

Reviewer: This is a repeat of the previous line.

            <td className="text-center">~$200 per month (max 1.5k sessions per day)</td>
            <td className="text-center">$175 per month</td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Browser app recording</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Watch real users use your product; diagnose bugs.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Connected to product analytics</strong></td>

>             <td className="text-center">Requires additional integration</td>

Reviewer: I'd just change this to a no. Hotjar doesn't do this; it requires an additional tool that does it.

            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>View replays for specific users and events.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Console logs</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center">Only in Scale plan</td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>

>             <td>Debug user problems and app errors.</td>

Reviewer: Nit: I won't correct this throughout, but this article is inconsistent in whether it uses a fullstop at the end of a sentence in this column. I don't mind having one, or not - but it should be a consistent style throughout the article.

        </tr>
        <tr>

>             <td><strong>Network activity</strong></td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <td><strong>Performance monitoring</strong></td>
```

>             <td><strong>Network activity</strong></td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <td><strong>Performance monitoring</strong></td>
```

            <td className="text-center">Planned Q2 2023</td>
            <td>Record user sessions in iOS apps.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Android app recording</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td className="text-center">Planned 2023</td>
            <td>Record user sessions in Android apps.</td>
        </tr>     
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Custom playlists</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Create playlists of related recordings.</td>
        </tr>   
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Download recordings</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Save recording files offline for storage.</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
</div>

> - **Recording retention:** Hotjar keeps all recordings for 365 days. PostHog retains all recordings for three weeks, but retains recordings saved to a playlist forever. PostHog also allows you to download recordings as a `.json` file for safe keeping.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Recording retention:** Hotjar keeps all recordings for 365 days. PostHog retains all recordings for three weeks, but retains recordings saved to a playlist forever. PostHog also enables you to download recordings as a `.json` file for safe keeping.
```

Tiny tone thing. Allows sounds permissive. Enable sounds empowering. I always prefer enable.

            <td>Show where users repeatedly click in a short period of time.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Combine rage click data with product analytics</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>View related events and funnel data for users who rage click.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Heatmap data filters</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Filter heatmaps by date, country etc.</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
</div>

### In-app messages and user research

Hotjar includes feedback widgets, surveys, and an integrated user research tool for gathering feedback from users. PostHog also supports [feedback widgets](/apps/feedback-widget) and [user research scheduling](/apps/user-interviews), although not surveys.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

However, because PostHog is entirely open source, it's possible for users to build their own user surveys if needed. 

```

You may want to expand on this, but I think it's good to add. Could arguably be a callout with a `>`

PostHog also offers additional ways to communicate with your users, such as a [notification bar](/apps/notification-bar) and interactive [pop-ups](tutorials/react-popups) through the use of [feature flag payloads](/docs/feature-flags/payloads), and [site apps](/tutorials/build-site-app). Also, since PostHog provides product analytics, you can easily define your target users who should see your widgets.

The main difference is, because Hotjar is designed for less technical users, it offers an interface that is simpler, but less powerful. You can easily create surveys and feedback widgets in Hotjar, but not other types of prompt such as a Calendly integration.

Below, we've listed the different methods for communicating with and collecting user feedback in Hotjar and PostHog.

<div className="overflow-x-auto -mx-5 px-5">
<table className="w-full mt-4" style="min-width: 600px;">
    <thead>
        <tr>

> 			<td className="w-3/12"></td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	<td className="w-3/12"></td>
```
tidying up

            <td><strong>Hotjar</strong></td>
            <td><strong>PostHog</strong></td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Feedback widget</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Suggestion box on your site where users can express frustration or delight.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Customer interview scheduling</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>In-app widget for requesting customer interviews.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Custom user targeting</strong></td>

>             <td className="text-center">Requires additional integration</td>

Reviewer: Again, if the tool doesn't do it then I'd just say no here.

            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Define who should see your widgets with your own data.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Surveys</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td>Capture user feedback with surveys. </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>

>             <td><strong>User research tooling</strong></td>

Reviewer: Again, this is really vague. We should be specific about what this means, as the current description doesn't tell me anything.

            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td>Integrated tools to assist you in research sessions.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Notification bar</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Display a customised banner on your site.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>In-app popups</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Highlight features in your app.</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
</div>

### Apps and integrations

> Both Hotjar and PostHog have a wide selection of apps and integration. Both also include integrations with tools such as Zapier, which enable you to move data to even more platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both Hotjar and PostHog have a wide selection of apps and integrations. Both also include integrations with tools such as Zapier, which enable you to move data to even more platforms.
```

> One unique advantage of PostHog is that, because it is open source, it’s easy to [create your own apps and integrations](/tutorials/build-your-own-posthog-app). This is useful if you’re, for example, using niche software in your stack that hasn’t been widely adopted, or if you require a direct integration between PostHog and your product. 

Reviewer: Love this

> Below, we've listed a few of the most popular integrations used across PostHog and Pendo. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below, we've listed a few of the most popular integrations used across PostHog and HotJar. PostHog offers more than 50 apps, so for a full list of PostHog's integrations, please [check the app library](/apps).
```
HotJar, not Pendo. Think this may have been copied from an earlier article? 

Also throwing in a CTA to the apps page

<div className="overflow-x-auto -mx-5 px-5">
<table className="w-full mt-4" style="min-width: 600px;">
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <td className="w-3/12"></td>
            <td><strong>Hotjar</strong></td>
            <td><strong>PostHog</strong></td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Hubspot</strong></td>

>             <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span> Surveys only</td>

Reviewer: I'd just say no here, and maybe move the 'Surveys only' point to the notes column. It's confusing as-is, because we're defining a Hubspot app as a way to sync data, saying HotJar doesn't have one, but it does have one, just one that doesn't fit that definition.

</table>
</div>

> **Want more?** Visit the [PostHog the app directory](/apps) for a full list of supported integrations.

## Privacy, compliance, and security

Regulatory compliance can be a critical need for many teams, especially if they operate in financial or healthcare industries. Regulations such as HIPPA and GDPR can require teams to store data in certain locations, or to protect data in certain ways. 

<div className="overflow-x-auto -mx-5 px-5">
<table className="w-full mt-4" style="min-width: 400px;">
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <td className="w-3/12"></td>
            <td><strong>Hotjar</strong></td>
            <td><strong>PostHog</strong></td>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>GDPR compliant</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>EU hosting or data residency available</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>HIPAA compliant</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>

>             <td className="text-center">Self-host only</td>

Reviewer: We don't offer self-hosting anymore, other than via Open Source deployments, which wouldn't be suitable for a BAA.

            <td>Business Associate Agreement available</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Data anonymization</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Remove personally identifiable information</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>

>             <td><strong>Self-hosting option</strong></td>

Reviewer: This needs to either be clear that we're talking about the open source Docker Compose version, or it needs to be corrected. We don't offer or support self-hosted versions as we used to.

            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Self-host and keep complete control of your data</td>

>         </tr>

Reviewer: We could add a point about cookie-less tracking here. Potentially also mention apps such as the Filter-Out app, which prevent unwanted data being ingested.

Author: Re cookie-less tracking: It breaks a whole bunch of session replay functionality, so I dont think it's worth including 
https://posthog.com/tutorials/cookieless-tracking

    </tbody>
</table>
</div>

## Frequently asked questions

> - [How is PostHog different?](#how-is-posthog-different)

Reviewer: We don't need to repeat many of these headings at the end of the article? We can cut this down to just the ones which are actually in the FAQ section.

Reviewer: Not sure what you mean here about it being auto-populated or uneditable -- and the right hand side will pull in all headings regardless of them being repeated here.

I've committed in the suggested change so that we don't repeat the already-used headings needlessly at the end of the article and only show the questions which are actually asked in this section.

Reviewer: Relevant commit for comparison: https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/pull/5931/commits/09ab842bd70338b98539235b9a5387bfceede748

  - [3. PostHog is open source](#3-posthog-is-open-source)
- [Core features](#core-features)
  - [Session replays](#session-replays)
  - [Heatmaps](#heatmaps)
  - [In-app messages and user research](#in-app-messages-and-user-research)
  - [Apps and integrations](#apps-and-integrations)
- [Privacy, compliance, and security](#privacy-compliance-and-security)
- [Frequently asked questions](#frequently-asked-questions)
  - [Who is Hotjar useful for?](#who-is-hotjar-useful-for)
  - [Who is PostHog useful for?](#who-is-posthog-useful-for)
  - [How much does Hotjar cost?](#how-much-does-hotjar-cost)
  - [How much does PostHog cost?](#how-much-does-posthog-cost)
  - [Do Hotjar and PostHog offer free trials?](#do-hotjar-and-posthog-offer-free-trials)

Got another question? You can [ask the PostHog team anything you want](/questions)!

### Who is Hotjar useful for?

Hotjar is designed primarily for marketers and UX specialists. Its key features are the ability to record session replays and heatmaps. It also provides widgets for collecting feedback and tools for scheduling customer interviews. These provide insights into how customers are using your product. 

### Who is PostHog useful for?

> PostHog is built primarily with engineers, product managers and other technical users in mind. It also offers the ability to record session replays, heatmaps, and create feedback widgets, but also offers a number of other tools that are useful for these types of teams, such as product analytics and feature flags. 

Reviewer: Generally, I think we should be throwing links to relevant docs and product pages in here.

This difference is ultimately reflected in many of the features both platforms offer, and how they are designed. PostHog's focus on breadth and supporting engineers in creating better products, for example, is reflected in its core features. 

### How much does Hotjar cost?

> Hotjar has tier-based pricing: Basic, Plus, Business and Scale. All plans offer session recordings, although the costs and limits differ. Additional features such as API access and SAML single sign-on are only available on some plans.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hotjar has tier-based pricing: Basic, Plus, Business and Scale. All plans offer session recordings, although the costs and limits differ. Additional features such as API access and SAML single sign-on are only available on some plans.
```

Best to be specific about which plans these features are on, or how much they cost.

Hotjar's free plan only records up to 35 daily session recordings. After this, the Plus tier offers 100 daily session recordings for $32 per month and the Business tier offers 500 daily sessions for $80 per month (with the option to pay for more sessions). Finally, the Scale tier offers 500 daily sessions for $171 per month, but offers access to additional features such as Console tracking and the Hotjar API.

### How much does PostHog cost?

PostHog has transparent pricing based on the usage. It’s free to get started and completely free for the first 15,000 sessions and 1 million events captured every month.

> After this free monthly allowance you'll pay $0.005/recording and $0.00045/event, and PostHog charges progressively less the more you use. Volume, non-profit and [startup discounts](/startups) are available upon request, and we recommend trying [our pricing calculator](/pricing) to estimate your pricing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After this free monthly allowance you'll pay from $0.005/recording and $0.00045/event, with charges decreasing the more you use. Volume, non-profit and [startup discounts](/startups) are available upon request, and we recommend trying [our pricing calculator](/pricing) to estimate your pricing.
```
